Service binding guide (#120)
redhat-developer/app-services-guides: service-discovery/README.adoc

== Starting the Quarkus example application

In this section of the guide we going to deploy Quarkus Example application container image 
The Quarkus example application in this quick start will connect with Kafka prices topic and generate random numbers between 0 and 100 and produces it to a Kafka topic. Another part of the application consumes the number from the Kafka topic. Applicalition exposes the number as a REST UI (using Server Sent events).

.Prerequisites
* You've created the `prices` example Kafka topic.

.Procedure
. Execute quarkus application template that will be deployed to your namespace
[source]
----
oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-developer/app-services-guides/main/code-examples/quarkus-kafka-quickstart/.kubernetes/kubernetes.yml
---- 
. Fetch route to the application by executing
[source]
----
oc get route
---- 
. Open **HOST/PORT** section in browser
. Verify that you see Quarkus landing page
. If the Quarkus application fails to run, review the error log in the terminal and address any problems. Also review the steps in this quick start to ensure that the Quarkus application and Kafka topic are configured correctly.

> . Append `/prices.html` to url to see prices section.

Author: I;m adding last remaining chapter to this

OpenShift is an Enteprise Kuberentes Platform. When deploying Quarkus and any other type of Applications developers can use 
https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2019/12/19/introducing-the-service-binding-operator/[ServiceBinding] capability that would let 
their applications to discover configuration automatically inside their OpenShift or Kubernetes instance.

RHOAS CLI contains speciallized set of commands that provide capability to connect and bind your applications with {product-long} services.
You can review all possible commands in https://github.com/redhat-developer/app-services-cli/blob/main/docs/commands/rhoas_cluster.adoc[cli documentation].

This quick start shows you how to connect Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka to OpenShift using the RHOAS CLI.
    

> In this Quick Start, you'll connect your OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka cloud service to your OpenShift cluster using the Red Hat OpenShift Application Services. (RHOAS) Operator and CLI. For more information on Red Hat OpenShift Application Services, please visit [cloud.redhat.com.](https://cloud.redhat.com/application-services)

Reviewer: Renders as 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2413816/115790886-79920780-a395-11eb-856c-6b4da8ad576e.png)

ifdef::qs[]
[#description]
Using the {product-long} services in your OpenShift cluster{product-long}.

[#introduction]
Welcome to the {product-long} Quarkus quick start. In this quick start, you'll learn how to use https://quarkus.io/[Quarkus^] to produce messages to and consume messages from your Kafka instances in {product}.
endif::[]

[id="proc-importing-quarkus-sample-code_{context}"]
== Importing the Quarkus sample code

For this quick start, you'll use the Quarkus sample code from the {product} {samples-git-repo}[Guides and Samples^] repository in GitHub. After you understand the concepts and tasks in this quick start, you can use your own Quarkus applications with {product} in the same way.

.Procedure
. On the command line, clone the {product} {samples-git-repo}[Guides and Samples^] repository from GitHub.
+
.Cloning the guides and samples repository
[source,subs="+attributes"]
----
git clone {samples-git-repo} guides
----
. In your IDE, import the `code-examples/quarkus-kafka-quickstart` directory from the repository that you cloned.

ifdef::qs[]
.Verification
* Is the Quarkus example application imported into your IDE?
endif::[]

[id="proc-installing-cli{context}"]

> == Installing required cli tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Installing required CLI tools
```

> RHOAS operator allow you to represent {product} services as first class citizens in your OpenShift environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RHOAS operator allows you to represent {product} services as first class citizens in your OpenShift environment.
```

This enables you to work and integrate with these services using standard OpenShift/Kubernetes features and APIs.
    
To connect your OpenShift project to your Red Hat OpenShift Application Services, you can use the RHOAS CLI.  

> This guide assumes that you have installed oc and rhoas cli on your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
I think this is confusing since the next part is installing RHOAS

== Connecting your service with running application

Once Application is running we can now connect our service using `rhoas cluster bind` command. This command will let us inject credentials to our application as files. Credentials will be by default injected as volume into our kuberentes deployment. Quarkus Kuberentes Client will detect them and automatically configure our application for us.

Bind command will create following structure in your pod that many frameworks like quarkus can automatically read and autoconfigure your application to connect with the Kafka and other services.

[source]
----
/bindings/yourkafka
├── bootstrapServers
├── password
├── provider
├── saslMechanism
├── securityProtocol
├── type
└── user
----

.Procedure
. Execute 
[source]
----
rhoas cluster bind
---- 
. Command will automatically detect our application and single Kafka service in our namespace and inject connection details to the running application.
. Select application we want to connect with and press enter to select it
. Command should end up with **Binding succeeded** message
. Please go back to your app `prices.html` page
. You should see prices changing on the webpage

> [source]
> ----
> rhoas cluster bind
> ---- 

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
```

Extra copy paste

already installed.

.Prerequisites
* You have bash/shell environment that can be used to download and install required tools

.Procedure
. Install oc command line by following https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[official guide]
. Install RHOAS CLI by downloading binaries from the latest release https://github.com/redhat-developer/app-services-cli/releases/latest

ifdef::qs[]
.Verification
* Do you see help printed when running oc command in your terminal
* Do you see help printed when running rhoas command in your terminal
endif::[]

[id="proc-installing-operator_{context}"]
== Installing RHOAS Operator on your OpenShift cluster

RHOAS Operator creates instances of {product} Services in your cluster. 
Operator connects with {product} API giving you ability to embed connection details to various services.

Operator currently enables developers to connect with their Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka (RHOSAK) instances.
Operator is used by RHOAS CLI to connect your services with your OpenShift cluster

[.screencapture]
.Operator and CLI relationships

> image::rhoas-operator.png[Operator and CLI relationships]

Author: Image doesn't render

NOTE: RHOAS Operator is already installed on various environments like OpenShift Developer Sandbox: https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox

NOTE: Installation procedure assumes that you have access to install operators in openshift-namespace on your cluster. 

.Prerequisites
* You have login access to OpenShift cluster
* You have cluster admin rights on OpenShift cluster in order to install Operator

.Procedure
. Please login to your OpenShift UI instance (if you do not have OpenShift instance you can use https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox and skip this procedure entirely)

. Navigate to side menu and select "Administrator" > "Operators" > "Operator Hub"
. Type "RHOAS" in search tab 
. Select "RHOAS" tile 
+
[.screencapture]
.Operator installation

> image::operator-install.png[Operator]

Author: Image doesn't render

:samples-git-repo: https://github.com/redhat-developer/app-services-guides

////
END GENERATED ATTRIBUTES
////

[IMPORTANT]
====
{product-long} is currently available for Development Preview. Development Preview releases provide early access to a limited set of features that might not be fully tested and that might change in the final GA version. Users should not use Development Preview software in production or for business-critical workloads. Limited documentation is available for Development Preview releases and is typically focused on fundamental user goals.
====

// Purpose statement for the assembly
[role="_abstract"]
As a developer of applications and services, you can connect Quarkus applications to Kafka instances in {product-long}. https://quarkus.io/[Quarkus^] is a Kubernetes-native Java framework made for Java virtual machines (JVMs) and native compilation, and optimized for serverless, cloud, and Kubernetes environments. Quarkus is designed to work with popular Java standards, frameworks, and libraries like Eclipse MicroProfile and Spring, as well as Apache Kafka, RESTEasy (JAX-RS), Hibernate ORM (JPA), Infinispan, Camel, and many more.

> OpenShift is an Enteprise Kuberentes Platform. When deploying Quarkus and any other type of Applications developers can use 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenShift is an Enteprise Kuberentes Platform. When deploying Quarkus and any other type of applications, developers can use 
```

> OpenShift is an Enteprise Kuberentes Platform. When deploying Quarkus and any other type of Applications developers can use 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenShift is an Enteprise Kuberentes Platform. When deploying Quarkus and any other type of application, developers can use 
```

> https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2019/12/19/introducing-the-service-binding-operator/[ServiceBinding] capability that would let 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2019/12/19/introducing-the-service-binding-operator/[Service Binding Operator] to 
```

> their applications to discover configuration automatically inside their OpenShift or Kubernetes instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enable your applications to discover configuration automatically in your OpenShift or Kubernetes instance.
```

Reviewer 2: Also, I'm not sure what "configuration" refers to here. Would it be correct to simply say that you use the Service Binding Operator to connect your application in OpenShift to a Kafka instance in Application Services?

> RHOAS CLI contains set of commands that provide capability to connect and bind your OpenShift deployed applications with {product-long} services.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to say anything about RHOAS here.

Author: About CLI? We're looking to provide some intro to all instructions. Can remove

You can review all possible commands in https://github.com/redhat-developer/app-services-cli/blob/main/docs/commands/rhoas_cluster.adoc[cli documentation].

> This quick start shows you how to connect Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka to OpenShift using the RHOAS CLI.

Reviewer 2: I think you can delete this since it says the following paragraph provides the same information.

> In this Quick Start, you'll connect your OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka cloud service to your OpenShift cluster using the Red Hat OpenShift Application Services. (RHOAS) Operator and CLI. For more information on Red Hat OpenShift Application Services, please visit [cloud.redhat.com.](https://cloud.redhat.com/application-services)

Reviewer 2: Should this refer to the Red Hat service?

Author: Not sure. Link has wrong format so will fix this

> In this Quick Start, you'll connect your OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka cloud service to your OpenShift cluster using the Red Hat OpenShift Application Services. (RHOAS) Operator and CLI. For more information on Red Hat OpenShift Application Services, please visit [cloud.redhat.com.](https://cloud.redhat.com/application-services)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this Quick Start, you'll connect your link:https://cloud.redhat.com/application-services[Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka cloud service] to your OpenShift cluster by using the Red Hat OpenShift Application Services (RHOAS) Operator and CLI.
```

.Prerequisites
ifndef::community[]
* You have a Red Hat account.
endif::[]
* You have a running Kafka instance in {product}.

// Condition out QS-only content so that it doesn't appear in docs.
// All QS anchor IDs must be in this alternate anchor ID format `[#anchor-id]` because the ascii splitter relies on the other format `[id="anchor-id"]` to generate module files.
ifdef::qs[]
[#description]
Using the {product-long} services in your OpenShift cluster{product-long}.

[#introduction]
Welcome to the {product-long} Service Discovery quick start. In this quick start, you'll learn how to connect your {product} services with https://quarkus.io/[Quarkus^]. Tutorial will connect Kafka with your Application to produce and consume messages from your Kafka instances in {product}.
endif::[]

[id="proc-installing-cli_{context}"]

> == Installing required cli tools

Reviewer 2: Alternatively, instead of making this a procedure, you could add both of these CLI tools to the quick start prereqs (i.e. "The oc CLI is installed.").

Author: Amazing idea

Author: I done that and I feel that those can be better as procedure as we can use verification to check if they work etc.
If we have those as requirements people might be - ok I have OC installed and go with it.

RHOAS operator allow you to represent {product} services as first class citizens in your OpenShift environment.
This enables you to work and integrate with these services using standard OpenShift/Kubernetes features and APIs.
    
To connect your OpenShift project to your Red Hat OpenShift Application Services, you can use the RHOAS CLI.  
In this step we going to install RHOAS and OpenShift cli. You can skip this step entirely if you have those CLI
already installed.

.Prerequisites
* You have bash/shell environment that can be used to download and install required tools

.Procedure
. Install oc command line by following https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[official guide]
. Install RHOAS CLI by downloading binaries from the latest release https://github.com/redhat-developer/app-services-cli/releases/latest

ifdef::qs[]
.Verification
* Do you see help printed when running oc command in your terminal
* Do you see help printed when running rhoas command in your terminal
endif::[]

[id="proc-installing-operator_{context}"]

> == Installing RHOAS Operator on your OpenShift cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Installing the RHOAS Operator in your OpenShift cluster
```

> RHOAS Operator creates instances of {product} Services in your cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RHOAS Operator creates instances of {product} services in your cluster. 
```
